README.md, before:

## **Awesome DSPy** [![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

A collection of awesome things regarding DSPy.

## [DSPy](https://github.com/stanfordnlp/dspy) - A library for compiling declarative language model calls into self-improving pipelines.

- [Official Documentation](https://dspy-docs.vercel.app/)


### Projects

- [XMC](https://github.com/KarelDO/xmc.dspy) - Infer Retrieve Rank multi-label classification tasks with an extreme amount of classes (≥10,000 classes)
- [dspy-arxiv](https://github.com/S1M0N38/dspy-arxiv) - Explore the use of DSPy for extracting features from PDFs
- [DSPyGen](https://github.com/seanchatmangpt/dspygen) - A Ruby on Rails style framework for the DSPy (Demonstrate, Search, Predict) project for Language Models like GPT, BERT, and LLama.
- [dspy-inspector](https://github.com/Neoxelox/dspy-inspector) - DSPy program/pipeline inspector widget for Jupyter/VSCode Notebooks.
- [Storm](https://github.com/jmanhype/Storm) - STORM, a writing system for the Synthesis of Topic Outlines through Retrieval and Multi-perspective Question Asking. [Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.14207)
- [DSPy with FASTAPI](https://github.com/diicellman/dspy-rag-fastapi) - a straightforward example of building a FastAPI backend with DSPy capabilities.
- [DSPy OpenTOM](https://github.com/vintrocode/dspy-opentom) - Exploration using DSPy to optimize modules to maximize performance on the OpenToM dataset.
- [Self Discover](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1GkAQKmw1XQgg5UNzzy8OncRe79V6pADB?usp=sharing) - SELF-DISCOVER: Large Language Models Self-Compose Reasoning Structures [Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03620) [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iC64q1gFWiY&ab_channel=Weaviate%E2%80%A2VectorDatabase)
- [dspy-gradio-rag](https://github.com/diicellman/dspy-gradio-rag) - RAG example using DSPy, Gradio, FastAPI
- [Synthesizer](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1CweVOu0qhTC0yOfW5QkLDRIKuAuWJKEr?usp=sharing#scrollTo=Th6MmBEiznK3) - Synthetic data generation colab.
- [Self Discover Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1GkAQKmw1XQgg5UNzzy8OncRe79V6pADB?usp=sharing) - Self Discover demo using Colab.
- [Hurricane](https://github.com/weaviate-tutorials/Hurricane) - Writing Blog Posts with Generative Feedback Loops!
- [DSPy Red Team](https://github.com/haizelabs/dspy-redteam) - Red teaming / Finding a Prompt attack for an LLM using DSPy. [Article](https://blog.haizelabs.com/posts/dspy/)
- [DSPy Indic](https://github.com/saifulhaq95/DSPy-Indic) - DSPy program for tasks in Indian Languages.
- [DSPy with LLamaIndex](https://github.com/Pavankunchala/LLM-Learn-PK/tree/main/DSP/DSPy_llamaIndex)
- [DSPy with Arize-Phoenix])(https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/cf97ddc438fd0e075f87b156a99cc930d4b31ca9/docs/tracing/integrations-tracing/dspy.md)
- [OpenInference DSPy Instrumentation](https://github.com/Arize-ai/openinference/tree/main/python/instrumentation/openinference-instrumentation-dspy)


### Blogs / Articles
- [Prompt engineering is a task best left to AI models](https://www.theregister.com/2024/02/22/prompt_engineering_ai_models/)
- [What makes DSPy a valuable framework for developing complex language model pipelines?](https://medium.com/@sujathamudadla1213/what-makes-dspy-a-valuable-framework-for-developing-complex-language-model-pipelines-edfa5b4bcf9b)
- [DSPy: A new framework to program your foundation models just by prompting](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/dspy-new-framework-program-your-foundation-models-just-prompting-lli4c/?trk=organization_guest_main-feed-card_feed-article-content)
- [Intro to DSPy: Goodbye Prompting, Hello Programming](https://medium.com/towards-data-science/intro-to-dspy-goodbye-prompting-hello-programming-4ca1c6ce3eb9)
- [DSPyGen: Revolutionizing AI](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/launch-alert-dspygen-20242252-revolutionizing-ai-sean-chatman--g9f1c/?trk=article-ssr-frontend-pulse_more-articles_related-content-card)
- [Building an AI Assistant with DSPy](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/building-ai-assistant-dspy-valliappa-lakshmanan-vgnsc/?trackingId=Gn5TWFiY%2FUjo9FlydGla%2FA%3D%3D)
- [Hurricane: Writing Blog Posts with Generative Feedback Loops](https://weaviate.io/blog/hurricane-generative-feedback-loops)
- [DSPy - Not your average prompt engineering](https://jina.ai/news/dspy-not-your-average-prompt-engineering/)
- [Red-Teaming Language Models with DSPy](https://blog.haizelabs.com/posts/dspy/)
- [DSPy on Databricks](https://www.databricks.com/blog/dspy-databricks)
- [Decision making ai agent with DSPY](https://www.lycee.ai/blog/decision-making-ai-agent-dspy)
- [DSPy Assertions: Discussing Computational Constraints for Self-Refining Language Model Pipelines](https://arize.com/blog/dspy-assertions-computational-constraints/)

### Twitter Threads
- [Collection of compilers in DSPy](https://twitter.com/ecardenas300/status/1780631627275571471)
- [Improve Agent accuracy with DSPy](https://twitter.com/lateinteraction/status/1781026667798138962)



### Videos
- [Automating Prompt Engineering with DSPy // Cyrus Nouroozi, Contributor at DSPy - Arize:Observe](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q_hTvyBeKAc)
- [DSPy: Transforming Language Model Calls into Smart Pipelines // Omar Khattab - MLOps.community](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NoaDWKHdkHg&t=3281s&ab_channel=MLOps.community)
- [Omar Khattab, DSPy: Compiling Declarative Language Model Calls into Self-Improving Pipelines - FunctionalTV](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dt3H2ninoeY&ab_channel=FunctionalTV)
- [DSPy Explained! - Connor Shorten](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=41EfOY0Ldkc&t=788s&ab_channel=ConnorShorten)
- [Programming Foundation Models with DSPy / Multivector Semantic Search with ColBERT // Omar Khattab -- Cohere](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y94tw4eDHW0&ab_channel=Cohere)
- [Getting Started with RAG in DSPy! - Connor Shorten](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CEuUG4Umfxs&t=60s&ab_channel=ConnorShorten)
- [Getting started with DSPy tutorial - QDrant](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_7oLIF6X9o&ab_channel=Qdrant)
- [NEW DSPyG: DSPy combined w/ Graph Optimizer in PyG - code_your_own_AI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rqR3LeR09gc&t=588s&ab_channel=code_your_own_AI)
- [Adding Depth to DSPy Programs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0c7Ksd6BG88&t=1111s&ab_channel=ConnorShorten) - In depth on DSPy optimiser.
- [Self-Discover in DSPy with Chris Dossman - Weaviate Podcast #90!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iC64q1gFWiY&ab_channel=Weaviate%E2%80%A2VectorDatabase)
- [Can You Tell Me About DSPy Optimizers: How Module Signatures & Prompts Are Modified by Optimizers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bzgWbCeC0iw&ab_channel=KamalrajMM) - Best explanation of DSPy Optimizers I have seen. 
- [Can You Tell Me About DSPy: How DSPy Automates Prompt Engineering Modularly](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zBb8XQZ4ksI&ab_channel=KamalrajMM)
- [Introducing 7 Modules Their Application & Prompts in DSPY: Can You Tell Me About DSPy Modules](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b2N01VnDego&ab_channel=KamalrajMM)
- [Can You Tell Me How To Connect Multiple Open Source Models With DSPy & Run Inference With Predict](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ELyk69DCiGQ&ab_channel=KamalrajMM)
- [DSPy Tutorial Playlist: Goes in depth on Signatures, Modules, Optimizers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zBb8XQZ4ksI&list=PLbzjzOKeYPCqoCjk_rTuZA1Qobq5_D_hX&ab_channel=KamalrajMM)
- [Structured Outputs with DSPy - Connor Shorten](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tVw3CwrN5-8&ab_channel=ConnorShorten)
- [DSPy Assertions: Computational Constraints for Self-Refining LM Pipelines // Arnav Singhvi](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NRc-y5Y70xU&ab_channel=MLOps.community)
- [Building LLM Agents with Tool Use](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5drn2DO7gNY&ab_channel=JayAlammar)
- [Llama 3 RAG Demo with DSPy Optimization, Ollama, and Weaviate! // Connor Shorten](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1h3_h8t3L14&ab_channel=ConnorShorten)


### Tutorials

- [Weaviate Recipes - DSPy](https://github.com/weaviate/recipes/tree/main/integrations/llm-frameworks/dspy)

### Papers

- [DSPy Assertions:Computational Constraints for Self-Refining Language Model Pipelines](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2312.13382.pdf)

Commit message:

Correct the link to `stanford-oval/storm`.

README.md, after:

## **Awesome DSPy** [![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

A collection of awesome things regarding DSPy.

## [DSPy](https://github.com/stanfordnlp/dspy) - A library for compiling declarative language model calls into self-improving pipelines.

- [Official Documentation](https://dspy-docs.vercel.app/)


### Projects

- [XMC](https://github.com/KarelDO/xmc.dspy) - Infer Retrieve Rank multi-label classification tasks with an extreme amount of classes (≥10,000 classes)
- [dspy-arxiv](https://github.com/S1M0N38/dspy-arxiv) - Explore the use of DSPy for extracting features from PDFs
- [DSPyGen](https://github.com/seanchatmangpt/dspygen) - A Ruby on Rails style framework for the DSPy (Demonstrate, Search, Predict) project for Language Models like GPT, BERT, and LLama.
- [dspy-inspector](https://github.com/Neoxelox/dspy-inspector) - DSPy program/pipeline inspector widget for Jupyter/VSCode Notebooks.
- [STORM](https://github.com/stanford-oval/storm) - An LLM-powered knowledge curation system that researches a topic and generates a full-length report with citations. [Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.14207)
- [DSPy with FASTAPI](https://github.com/diicellman/dspy-rag-fastapi) - a straightforward example of building a FastAPI backend with DSPy capabilities.
- [DSPy OpenTOM](https://github.com/vintrocode/dspy-opentom) - Exploration using DSPy to optimize modules to maximize performance on the OpenToM dataset.
- [Self Discover](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1GkAQKmw1XQgg5UNzzy8OncRe79V6pADB?usp=sharing) - SELF-DISCOVER: Large Language Models Self-Compose Reasoning Structures [Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03620) [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iC64q1gFWiY&ab_channel=Weaviate%E2%80%A2VectorDatabase)
- [dspy-gradio-rag](https://github.com/diicellman/dspy-gradio-rag) - RAG example using DSPy, Gradio, FastAPI
- [Synthesizer](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1CweVOu0qhTC0yOfW5QkLDRIKuAuWJKEr?usp=sharing#scrollTo=Th6MmBEiznK3) - Synthetic data generation colab.
- [Self Discover Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1GkAQKmw1XQgg5UNzzy8OncRe79V6pADB?usp=sharing) - Self Discover demo using Colab.
- [Hurricane](https://github.com/weaviate-tutorials/Hurricane) - Writing Blog Posts with Generative Feedback Loops!
- [DSPy Red Team](https://github.com/haizelabs/dspy-redteam) - Red teaming / Finding a Prompt attack for an LLM using DSPy. [Article](https://blog.haizelabs.com/posts/dspy/)
- [DSPy Indic](https://github.com/saifulhaq95/DSPy-Indic) - DSPy program for tasks in Indian Languages.
- [DSPy with LLamaIndex](https://github.com/Pavankunchala/LLM-Learn-PK/tree/main/DSP/DSPy_llamaIndex)
- [DSPy with Arize-Phoenix])(https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/cf97ddc438fd0e075f87b156a99cc930d4b31ca9/docs/tracing/integrations-tracing/dspy.md)
- [OpenInference DSPy Instrumentation](https://github.com/Arize-ai/openinference/tree/main/python/instrumentation/openinference-instrumentation-dspy)


### Blogs / Articles
- [Prompt engineering is a task best left to AI models](https://www.theregister.com/2024/02/22/prompt_engineering_ai_models/)
- [What makes DSPy a valuable framework for developing complex language model pipelines?](https://medium.com/@sujathamudadla1213/what-makes-dspy-a-valuable-framework-for-developing-complex-language-model-pipelines-edfa5b4bcf9b)
- [DSPy: A new framework to program your foundation models just by prompting](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/dspy-new-framework-program-your-foundation-models-just-prompting-lli4c/?trk=organization_guest_main-feed-card_feed-article-content)
- [Intro to DSPy: Goodbye Prompting, Hello Programming](https://medium.com/towards-data-science/intro-to-dspy-goodbye-prompting-hello-programming-4ca1c6ce3eb9)
- [DSPyGen: Revolutionizing AI](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/launch-alert-dspygen-20242252-revolutionizing-ai-sean-chatman--g9f1c/?trk=article-ssr-frontend-pulse_more-articles_related-content-card)
- [Building an AI Assistant with DSPy](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/building-ai-assistant-dspy-valliappa-lakshmanan-vgnsc/?trackingId=Gn5TWFiY%2FUjo9FlydGla%2FA%3D%3D)
- [Hurricane: Writing Blog Posts with Generative Feedback Loops](https://weaviate.io/blog/hurricane-generative-feedback-loops)
- [DSPy - Not your average prompt engineering](https://jina.ai/news/dspy-not-your-average-prompt-engineering/)
- [Red-Teaming Language Models with DSPy](https://blog.haizelabs.com/posts/dspy/)
- [DSPy on Databricks](https://www.databricks.com/blog/dspy-databricks)
- [Decision making ai agent with DSPY](https://www.lycee.ai/blog/decision-making-ai-agent-dspy)
- [DSPy Assertions: Discussing Computational Constraints for Self-Refining Language Model Pipelines](https://arize.com/blog/dspy-assertions-computational-constraints/)

### Twitter Threads
- [Collection of compilers in DSPy](https://twitter.com/ecardenas300/status/1780631627275571471)
- [Improve Agent accuracy with DSPy](https://twitter.com/lateinteraction/status/1781026667798138962)



### Videos
- [Automating Prompt Engineering with DSPy // Cyrus Nouroozi, Contributor at DSPy - Arize:Observe](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q_hTvyBeKAc)
- [DSPy: Transforming Language Model Calls into Smart Pipelines // Omar Khattab - MLOps.community](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NoaDWKHdkHg&t=3281s&ab_channel=MLOps.community)
- [Omar Khattab, DSPy: Compiling Declarative Language Model Calls into Self-Improving Pipelines - FunctionalTV](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dt3H2ninoeY&ab_channel=FunctionalTV)
- [DSPy Explained! - Connor Shorten](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=41EfOY0Ldkc&t=788s&ab_channel=ConnorShorten)
- [Programming Foundation Models with DSPy / Multivector Semantic Search with ColBERT // Omar Khattab -- Cohere](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y94tw4eDHW0&ab_channel=Cohere)
- [Getting Started with RAG in DSPy! - Connor Shorten](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CEuUG4Umfxs&t=60s&ab_channel=ConnorShorten)
- [Getting started with DSPy tutorial - QDrant](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_7oLIF6X9o&ab_channel=Qdrant)
- [NEW DSPyG: DSPy combined w/ Graph Optimizer in PyG - code_your_own_AI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rqR3LeR09gc&t=588s&ab_channel=code_your_own_AI)
- [Adding Depth to DSPy Programs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0c7Ksd6BG88&t=1111s&ab_channel=ConnorShorten) - In depth on DSPy optimiser.
- [Self-Discover in DSPy with Chris Dossman - Weaviate Podcast #90!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iC64q1gFWiY&ab_channel=Weaviate%E2%80%A2VectorDatabase)
- [Can You Tell Me About DSPy Optimizers: How Module Signatures & Prompts Are Modified by Optimizers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bzgWbCeC0iw&ab_channel=KamalrajMM) - Best explanation of DSPy Optimizers I have seen.
- [Can You Tell Me About DSPy: How DSPy Automates Prompt Engineering Modularly](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zBb8XQZ4ksI&ab_channel=KamalrajMM)
- [Introducing 7 Modules Their Application & Prompts in DSPY: Can You Tell Me About DSPy Modules](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b2N01VnDego&ab_channel=KamalrajMM)
- [Can You Tell Me How To Connect Multiple Open Source Models With DSPy & Run Inference With Predict](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ELyk69DCiGQ&ab_channel=KamalrajMM)
- [DSPy Tutorial Playlist: Goes in depth on Signatures, Modules, Optimizers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zBb8XQZ4ksI&list=PLbzjzOKeYPCqoCjk_rTuZA1Qobq5_D_hX&ab_channel=KamalrajMM)
- [Structured Outputs with DSPy - Connor Shorten](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tVw3CwrN5-8&ab_channel=ConnorShorten)
- [DSPy Assertions: Computational Constraints for Self-Refining LM Pipelines // Arnav Singhvi](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NRc-y5Y70xU&ab_channel=MLOps.community)
- [Building LLM Agents with Tool Use](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5drn2DO7gNY&ab_channel=JayAlammar)
- [Llama 3 RAG Demo with DSPy Optimization, Ollama, and Weaviate! // Connor Shorten](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1h3_h8t3L14&ab_channel=ConnorShorten)


### Tutorials

- [Weaviate Recipes - DSPy](https://github.com/weaviate/recipes/tree/main/integrations/llm-frameworks/dspy)

### Papers

- [DSPy Assertions:Computational Constraints for Self-Refining Language Model Pipelines](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2312.13382.pdf)
